---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---


<p>
The student <em><b>C</b>ommunity <b>O</b>ut<b>r</b>each <b>P</b>andemic
<b>S</b>ervice</em> are a group of preclinical and clinical medical and
physician assistant (PA) students serving the community by acting as physician
extenders for providers during the time of the COVID-19 pandemic. Students
partner with providers to make follow up calls to patients that the provider
thinks may be potentially vulnerable in some way, for example because they are
older, live alone, or are experiencing heightened anxiety due to the pandemic.
Normally, providers would call these patients back themselves, however COVID-19
cases have stretched medical resources thin, making these wellness calls harder
to execute. Medical and PA students are largely excluded from clinical care at
this time due to PPE shortages and have the ability to work with clinicians to
provide this follow up and emotional support to potentially isolated patient,
effectively extending the reach of overtaxed clinicians.
</p>

Students do not provide any medical advice or medical care over the phone and
are not acting as medical providers in any way. They are instead simply
providing medical support and relaying any non-urgent questions or concerns from
patient to provider.

This repository will contain all the materials needed to start a clinican:student
partnership, including onboarding materials, example scripts, Epic templates,
and instructions on using Doximity and Epic for calls. The Epic templates and
instructions will likely need to be adapted for each environment, but everything
else should be transferrable.

## Creators

The student CORPS is a product of Stanford medical students and the faculty at the [Stanford Healthcare Innovations and Experiential Learning Directive (SHIELD)](https://med.stanford.edu/shield.html) who wanted to create a way for students to be able to provide support to patients and faculty during the COVID-19 crisis.


The theme for this site ([Reverie](https://github.com/amitmerchant1990/reverie)) was created by [Amit Merchant](https://github.com/amitmerchant1990/)
